						OPERATING SYSTEMS PROGRAMMING ASSIGNMENT REPORT

								PREPARED BY:

							- CISSE MAMADOU THIANA 1731425
							- LIU YUFEI 1722279
							- YANG HAO 1414791


		INTRODUCTION
	
	Class scheduling is nearly similar to CPU scheduling, the only difference is that class scheduling cannot be pre-emptive for the only reason that 
once a class has started, it connot be stopped until it gets over. In that optic, non pre-emptive algorithms such as first come first serve (FCFS), 
shortest job first (SJF), priority scheduling are quite suitable to accomplish this task. This report elaborates on the implementation of the 
above mentionned algorithms and their analysis. Note the a class has the following attributes: course code, duartion, priority and arrival time.

		1- First Come First Serve (FCFS):
As a class has an arrival time, it makes possible to be implemented with first come first serve algorithms. Also known as FIFO (first in first out), it 
executes the processes according to their arrival time. This scheduling algorithm may have some disadvantages if short processes come in late. That means
they will have to wait for long processes that came in early to finish first and that result in lower CPU and device utilization. Let's not forget that the 
problem of salvation may as well occur. FCFS is poor in performance since the average waiting time is higher as compare to other scheduling algorithms. 

		2- Shortest Job First (SJF):
Overall, Shortest-Job-First (SJF) Scheduling has the least average waiting time with 3.4 hours compared with First-come, First-serve (FCFS) Scheduling with
4 hours and Priority Scheduling with 4.2 hours respectively. Therefore, SJF has the best results for us to schedule the class time.
The logic of SJF is that make sure the subjects which have the least class duration can be scheduled to hold so that there will be less waiting time for 
other subjects. In fact, it makes sense and it gives the minimum average waiting time. Otherwise, in CPU Scheduling, it difficult to know the length of the
next request. However, it is not the same case in class scheduling. Since it is non-preemptive, the classes are handled easily. 
On the other hand, SJF does not have the least turnaround time, it is a little longer than FCFS. FCFS is more straightforward. The reason is that for FCFS,
it has arrival time instead of all subjects are being executed at the same time. Due to this, it may have less time on turnaround time than SJF.
For Priority Scheduling, it depends on its priority level but not time. Therefore, it may have longer average waiting time and average turnaround time 
than other algorithms.
 
		3- Priority Scheduling:
Priority refers to the priority level assigned to the task by the computer operating system. It determines the priority of tasks when using resources.
The priority level is assigned to the device. It determines the order in which the device receives the response from the processor when it makes an 
interrupt request. Task scheduling priority mainly refers to the priority of the task when it is scheduled to run, mainly related to the priority of the
task itself and the scheduling algorithm. Especially in real-time systems, task scheduling priority reflects the importance and urgency of a task.
Each process has a corresponding priority, and the priority determines when it runs and how much CPU time it receives. There are 32 priority levels in
Windows, from 0 to 31, called the basic priority level. The priority of the Linux system ranges from 0-140, 0-99 for real-time processes, and 100-140 for
non-real-time processes. Contrary to Windows, the smaller the Linux priority value, the higher the level, and the priority of tasks scheduled by the kernel.
The definition of priority can be divided into internal or external:
-The internally defined priority uses some measurement data to calculate the process priority. For example, time limits, memory requirements, the number of
open files, and the ratio of average I/O execution time to average CPU execution can all be used to calculate the priority.
-The externally defined priority adopts criteria outside the operating system, such as the importance of the process, the type and amount of fees used to 
pay for the use of the computer, the sponsoring department, and other factors.
 
